   in :  ,  , and   - .  ,  . ,  .  , 2007
   published  2007Consumer   in :  ,  , and  BrandingM.   ,  .  , and  .    all authors and  44,  ://10150944014ContentsAbstractDataResultsConclusionFootnotesReferencesPDF / ePubMoreCite  , rights and  and  and tablesAbstractUsing data from 50 . markets, , , and Dubé (2007) observe that geographic variation is the predominant source of variation in national brand market shares.  authors of this comment extend this surprising and previously undocumented result in several respects. , they replicate this basic finding in  and find that it is robust to time and region aggregation and data duration. , because of regional variation in chain locations and the limited research on the relative effect of chains on market shares, they link chain effects to market shares in .  authors find that () chain effects explain more variation in market share than either time or region effects and () the addition of chain effects attenuates  effects. , chain structure is both another source of regional variation in demand and an important consideration in its own right. , by coupling  effects with longer data, the authors note that  effects are larger than  effects in .  result suggests the importance of  effects in marketing and the need to collect longer durations of data to explain variation in market , , and Dubé (2007; hereinafter BDD) document remarkably high variation in national brands' local market shares in the  . , this  variation is much larger than  variation.  provocative observation is long overdue and indicates that marketing has been too inattentive to this  goals in this comment are threefold. , we attempt to assess whether this result generalizes to other  particular, to .  is an especially desirable market to contrast with the   because more than  of its retail chains and the bulk of its advertising are nationally oriented. , , as are all  countries except for , is smaller than the  ; the area of  is % of the conterminous . land area (somewhat larger than a triangle whose vertices are formed by  , , and ), and the population of  is 21% of that in the  . , it might be expected that BDD results do not extend beyond the  . , we find that BDD findings are robust in .  BDD find that brand x market interactions explain 92% of the total variation in share in the  , we find that these effects are also dominant in , explaining 77% of the total variation in market share.  result is robust to the sampling rate of the data (weekly or ), the duration of the data (39 or 66  periods), and the level of aggregation (, 22, or 96 regions).  with BDD results, we find that market shares exhibit spatial dependence. , the spatial dependency in market shares is less in , presumably because of the greater variation in local , we assess whether variation in market shares is related to chain effects.  consider chain variation for two reasons.  first reason is that many chains operate locally; therefore, they represent another source of spatial variation in sales.  second reason is that the chains are an interesting phenomenon in their own right, and this issue has received scant attention in the literature relative to the regional variation in market shares that BDD describe.  contrast to the  , in which , , and Dubé (2006) find that region effects dominate chain effects, we find that chain structure explains more variation in market share in  than either region or time. , the addition of chains attenuates the combined market and  effects by 27%.  diminution in  effects may arise from () regional differences in demand, () regional differences in marketing manifested at the chain level,  () differences in chains' , we consider BDD finding of negligible time variation in shares.  the same duration, frequency, and model as BDD, we replicate their finding that time effects are small (% of the total variation in  compared with % in the  ). , using a longer time horizon and higher sampling rate coupled with a brand x time interaction, we find that the proportion of explained variation in market shares due to  effects in  (20%) is slightly larger than  effects (18%).  weekly brand x time interactions can capture market share variation that arises from   strategies, such as promotions or advertising.  interesting prescription arising from this finding is that  data are needed to assess time variation in market shares  organize the remainder of this article as follows:  the next section, we describe the data set used. , we summarize the sequence of models used to replicate BDD results and extend their findings. , we offer DataWe use data provided by   . ().  stockkeeping  scanner data are available per store per week, and they cover just over five years ( , 1999 31, 2004) for 25 product categories sold in a national sample of 443 outlets representing 23 chains.  BDD use ACNielsen  , there is no equivalent to designated market areas in  (or elsewhere in the  , except the  ). , we consider three sets of market definitions using geographic and administrative divisions in .  first consider the  main geographic regions in  (average population = 473172, average area = 22964 ).  also study a second market definition with 22 regions (average population = 659943, average area = 9547 ).  regions are also the main administrative units of the  government (somewhat like states in the  , but with less independence).  regional characteristics are pronounced in this breakdown because people promote and preserve valued traditions, from clothing to local types of food.  then subdivide these 22 regions into 96 departments (counties), which form the third market definition (average population = 609570, average area = 2188 ).  that the  breakdown is closest to BDD . sample with regard to the number of stores sampled per region, whereas the 22 breakdown is closest in terms of population per region.  make our sample most comparable to BDD and to decrease the covariation between chain location and region, we use the most aggregated market definition for our analysis ( regions), though we consider the other two market definitions to explore the effect of regional  make our data further comparable to BDD in terms of duration, sampling rate, and level of aggregation, in each category, we aggregated data from the stockkeeping unit per store per week level to the brand per region per  level.  do BDD, we consider the variation over time in the volume share of the two largest national brands in each category.  make the data duration comparable, we initially focus only on the last 39  periods. , we relax the duration, sampling rate, and level of aggregation restrictions to explore their   contains descriptive statistics for the market shares of the selected 50 brands ( brands in 25 categories) based on the last 39  periods.  report descriptive statistics for the market shares, which we calculated using data from all chains, local chains only, or national chains only.  define a chain as national if it is present in all nine regions and local if otherwise.  local  row mimics . data, in which national chains, such as  and , are often    of the      25   ShareDispersionRangeMinimumMaximumAll       203132073162235 SD099087052086112Local        199158091157249 SD098100061086121National        194118064162226 SD097078043088109Open in   indicates that average national market share for the two leading share brands in the   (BDD) and  samples is similar at approximately 20%. , the standard deviation of national market shares across regions is lower in the  sample (.10 versus .15 in the  ), and the dispersion is considerably smaller (.13 versus .72 in the  ).  smaller dispersion may reflect the smaller size of the  market.  may also be due, in part, to the presence of retail chains that operate nationally in the  data and brands that operate locally in the . data.  we consider only local chains and nationally distributed brands in both data, the difference in dispersion between  and the   becomes smaller (.16 versus .43 in the  ).  increase in dispersion when we omit national chains suggests that national distribution plays a role in the relatively low dispersion in .  addition, advertising expenditure data provided by TNS  () reveal that the bulk of brands in our sample do not spend money on regional advertising, which is also consistent with BDD speculation that local advertising may play a role in the creation of regional variation in market ApproachTo assess whether regional differences dominate market share variation in  and how robust this finding may be to factors such as data aggregation and duration, we estimate a sequence of generalized linear models, as outlined in  .  this approach, we explore the robustness of the dominance of regional effects to () data duration, () time aggregation, () regional aggregation, () chain aggregation, () the addition of brand x chain interactions, and () the addition of brand x time    StepsOpen in  consider brand x chain interactions because chains differ in their locations across regions and because  effects are an interesting consideration in their own right.  variation in shares can arise from differences in a  preferences or differences in retailer and manufacturer marketing support for a given brand across chains.  exemplify the role of chains in explaining variation in market shares, we consider  cereal shares in two  chains,   and  .  of   outlets are in the northeast of , and   outlets are present in almost all regions.  has low share in   across its entire territory and tends to have a high share in   across its territory.  has a couple of key implications. , when we consider the northernmost part of  (.,  , ), the overlap of   and   in the same region leads to considerable  variation in market shares.  suggests that chain variation is an important component of market shares. , in regions where   and  do not overlap, such as  in the southwest of  (where only   operates), it is unclear whether the high share for  can be ascribed to a chain effect or a region effect. , it is desirable to control for chain effects when measuring region effects, and the overlap of chains within at least some of the regions makes it possible to disentangle these effects (., in our - and 22 data). consider brand x time interactions because time effects may be brand specific as a result of  promotions or advertising.  main effects (as BDD include) may not explain much variation in share because share gains for one brand often come at the expense of another brand.  implies that the combined share of the top two brands might not vary much over time (if all brands are included, constraints on the sum of market shares mitigate any  variation).ResultsMarket   of VarianceTable  reports the results of each model. M0, which is reflective of the approach that BDD use, indicates that () market main effects explain much more market share variation than time main effects (14% versus %) and () brand x market interactions explain more variation than the sum of their main effects (76% > 51% + 14%).  results reaffirm BDD finding that there is a large,  geographic dispersion in market shares that dominates time main    of   (  25 ModelDataDuration DefinitionMarket (%) (%) (%) (%)   (%)   (%)   (%)M0Brand per market per four weeks39  regions145136576——M1Brand per market per four weeks39  regions145096411——M2Brand per market per four weeks66  regions124859910——M3aBrand per market per week265  regions114621059——M3bBrand per market per four weeks66 22 regions124348213——M3cBrand per market per four weeks66 96 regions133535315——M4Brand per chain per market per week265  276344——M5Brand per chain per market per week265  38811933318M6Brand per chain per market per week265  38811931318152Notes:  report the average  for all models.  that the results of MO are comparable to those of BDD because  and  statistics are identical in models with a single fixed  in viewerM1 replaces BDD “” analysis of variance (ANOVA) in which each factor is considered separately with a simultaneous ANOVA and all factors are simultaneously present.  controls for nonorthogonality in the design variable because a small number of  combinations are not present in our data. M1 indicates that the combined brand, market, and brand x market effect constitutes 50% + 14% + 11% = 76% of the total variation (similar to M0 76%). M2, we assess the robustness of the findings to a 69% increase in the data duration (from 39 to 66  periods).  BDD indicate, more observations over time accommodate the possibility of an increase in time variation.  confirmation of their conjecture, the total variation accounted for by time effects increases from % to %, and the sum of brand, market, and brand x market effects drops somewhat to 71%.  that the time variation increases in proportion to the data length, suggesting that it is important for firms to collect long periods of data to assess the  effects of their strategies on market share (,  , and  2006)., we consider the sensitivity of our results to time and regional aggregation.  differences as a percentage of total variation become slightly less pronounced as we disaggregate markets: 71% for  regions (M2) versus 69% for 22 regions (M3b) and 64% for 96 regions (M3c). , time effects become slightly less pronounced as a percentage of total variation as time aggregation increases: 10% for weekly periods (M3a) versus % for  periods (M2). , the regional effects are largely robust to aggregation across time and region.  subsequent analyses proceed using the most disaggregated time (., 264 weeks) and the most aggregated region (.,  regions) levels because the larger regions offer the most orthogonal design to disentangle region and chain effects and because the 264 weeks provide more information about time M4 considers chain aggregation by disaggregating the data from the brand per region per time level to the brand per region per time per chain level.  percentage of total variation explained (39%) by the same four factors (market, brand, time, and brand x market) is much lower than M3a (77%) because of added variation in the data that arises from unobserved chain per time per region per brand factors.  other words, adding observations but not regressors to the ANOVA decreases the explained variation in the model.  makes it difficult to compare the regional effects across the different data sets because, in general, the explained variation falls with more observations.  address this issue, we introduce another metric: percentage of explained variation (as opposed to percentage of total variation).  brand and market factors in M4 constitute (% + 27% + %)/(% + 27% + % + %) = 91% of the explained variation, compared with 86% in M3a, 89% in M3b, 92% in M3c, 87% in M2, and 92% in M1.  these percentages are all roughly comparable, we conclude that regional effects are robust to aggregation across chains, markets, and time in terms of their relative importance in explaining variation in market M5 adds chain and brand x chain effects to M4.  add chain effects because there is considerable regional variation in the location of chains, as we discussed previously, and because we conjecture that these effects may explain considerable variation in market shares.  results of M5 indicate that chain effects (%) explain more share variation than market (%) or time (%) main effects in .  addition, when we add chain and brand x chain effects, we observe that the explained variation that arises from the combined chain, brand, and brand x chain effect is larger than the combined brand, market, and brand x market effect (28% versus 18%).  factors appear to dominate time effects. , the percentage of explained variation that arises from brand, market, and brand x market effects decreases from 91% in M4 to 47% in M5 because the variation explained by chain effects is considerable and because some of the regional variation in shares can be ascribed to chains.  of this latter point, the percentage of total variation explained by the combined region and brand x region effects decreases from % to % (a decrease of 27%) when we add chain effects, suggesting that it is desirable to control for chain effects when estimating region effects.  M5, we conclude that not only does spatial variation in market shares merit additional attention but so too does variation in shares across M6 adds brand x time effects.  this model, the combined brand, market, and brand x market effect accounts for 18% of the total variation; the combined brand, chain, and brand x chain effect accounts for 28% of the total variation; and the combined brand, time, and brand x time effect accounts for 20% of the total variation in market  ,  effects are somewhat larger than  effects in  and constitute a key source of variation in market 3Spatial DependenceFollowing BDD, we estimate each  spatial autocorrelation using  and  (2002)   find significant spatial autocorrelation primarily in the lowest level of regional aggregation (the spatial autocorrelation is significantly different from zero for 78%, 48%, and 10% of brands in the 96-, 22-, and  levels, respectively).  find that brand shares are correlated in regions separated, on average, by 96, 58, and  miles in the 96-, 22-, and  levels, respectively (inclusive of zero distances).  finding of lower levels of spatial autocorrelation in  may reflect greater regional heterogeneity in customs and culture (as is the case in many countries) than in the  .  example, the easternmost regions of  and  are influenced by  cultures,  culture is prevalent in the far north,  influences are present in the far southeast,  influences are common in  in the northwest, and  and  cultures are common along the  border.  suggests that spatial covariation is most likely to manifest at the most local level.  with this conjecture, much of this spatial covariation is attenuated when we aggregate across ConclusionFirst, we replicate in  BDD findings pertaining to the central role of regional variation in market shares.  short, the important source of market share variation that BDD document, which has been previously underattended in marketing research, is robust across different levels of time and region aggregation and time duration. , spatial dependence in market shares appears to be a common phenomenon in  and the  . , we find that a large portion of the explained market share variance in  is due to chain effects. , these chain effects exceed region and time effects, suggesting that there is another important component to market shares that has been largely underattended by the field.  interesting avenue for further research would be to assess whether these chain differences are another manifestation of regional variation in shares that arises from manufacturer policy or local consumer preferences or whether they are related to other  factors. , by extending BDD analysis to the chain per week level over five years and adding brand x time interactions, we find that brand– time effects are larger than  effects in .  also find the time variation in share increases with the duration of the data, and therefore we recommend that firms work to collect data over increasingly long durations to understand better how brands garner enduring share advantage.  the plethora of research pertaining to explaining  variation, the relative dearth of research on spatial and chain effects is surprising, and we commend BDD for their pioneering research in this Footnotes1  be precise, we use 21 markets in the 22 breakdown because we do not include the island of  in the analysis. , we observe stores located in 79 departments in the 96  to Footnote2  adding a brand x time interaction to M0 (denoted M0a), we find that the percentages of total variance explained by market, brand, time, brand x market, and brand x time are 14%, 50%, %, 11%, and 12%, respectively.  indicates that brand and time effects as a percentage of total variance (70%) are smaller than combined brand and region effects (76%) in , but they are still sizable.  increasing relative importance of time effects at the chain per week level may reflect  differences in promotional  to Footnote3  also estimated a multivariate analysis of variance of the two brand shares on brand, chain, region, and time.  analysis controls for  covariation of brand shares for a given chain per region per period.  the  block, market, chain, and time explain 12%, 27%, and 11% of the total variation, whereas in the  block, the market, chain, and time effects explain %, 15%, and 11% of the total variation.  brand effect is 23%; thus, brand effects are dominant on  differences in brand shares, and chain effects are dominant on mean share differences across markets. , time effects exceed region effects within chains, whereas the region effect exceeds the time effect across chains.  implies that  variation in market shares is the predominant source of regional variation in  to Footnote4  estimate spatial autocorrelation using each  mean market shares across 50 markets and a uniform kernel with a bandwidth of 50 miles, which is approximately 25% of distance  interquartile range for each level of regional aggregation.  obtain the acceptance regions using a bootstrap procedure, in which data are resampled from the empirical marginal distribution with replacement and locations  to FootnoteReferencesAtaman . , van   ., and   . (2006), “   of   on  , ” working paper,  of  and  ,   to ReferenceGoogle ScholarBronnenberg  .,   ., and Dubé  (2006), “  and the   of   in    , ” working paper,   of ,  of ,   ScholarBronnenberg  .,   ., and Dubé  (2007), “   in the  :  ,  ,”  of  , 44 (), 13CrossrefGoogle ScholarConley  ., and   (2002), “  and   in ,”  of  , 17 (), 303327 to ReferenceCrossrefGoogle ScholarCite  article